So as mentioned at the end of the last lecture, it would be nice if we could validate the user input,
something very important in any app you build.
Whilst you should still validate input on the server as the front-end can always be tricked, you can
greatly enhance user experience by also validating the input here,
for example we want to make sure that none of the fields here is empty and that the e-mail address
actually is a valid e-mail address.
So let's go back to our app component, to the HTML file, to the template and see how we can add such validators.
Now since we use the template driven approach, we can only add them in the template
and here we can for example add required to our username input. Now required is a default HTML attribute
you can add to an input, here however Angular will detect it,
so it acts as a selector for a built-in directive shipping with Angular and it will automatically configure
your form you could say, to take this into account, to make sure that now this will be treated as invalid
if
it is empty.
And on the e-mail, we can for example therefore also add required
and there also is an e-mail directive you can add.
Now e-mail is not a built-in HTML attribute,
it still is a directive
and keep in mind required is only treated as a selector for an Angular directive here.
An e-mail is simply another directive made available by Angular which makes sure that this is actually
a valid e-mail address.
So now if we save this and we have a look at our form here and I submit it, I can still submit it because
we haven't set up anything which would prevent us from doing so
but if we have a look at it and check the valid attributes, you see it is false.
And if I enter something here and I enter something here,
so it's filled but the e-mail address is still not valid,
you see that still valid is false.
Only if I turn this into a valid e-mail address here, only in this case,
now if we submit it,
now you see valid is true.
So now Angular tracks the state of this form and correctly informs us or gives us a chance of querying
it whether this form is valid or not and actually this does not only work on form level, if we dive into
the actual controls, you'll see that on the e-mail control,
we also have a valid attribute which is true.
So it tracks this on a per control level
and then also on a form level, now there also is another place where it tracks this and helps us.
If we inspect this e-mail element here in the HTML code,
you'll see that it adds a couple of classes because the form-control class here is by us, it's
a Bootstrap class to give it some styling but ng-dirty, ng-touched and ng-valid,
these are not classes added by us and the ng at the beginning makes it pretty clear who is responsible
for adding these classes.
Now watch these classes
if I remove the @ sign here,
you saw that ng-invalid was added and ng-valid was removed.
So Angular dynamically add some classes, giving us information, some CSS classes, giving us information
about the state of the individual control here whether it is dirty or not,
so whether we did change the initial value, whether it touched or not
so whether we clicked into it or not and whether it is valid or not.
Now with that information, we can style these inputs conditionally.
So let's in the next lecture take advantage of the fact that Angular tracks the state of the validity and
of the form overall and change the styling and the behavior the user experience with that form.